.TH RCLGREP 1 "20 September 2022"
.SH NAME
rclgrep \- Print lines that match of patterns
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rclgrep \-h
.br
.B rclgrep
[\fI\,OPTION\/\fR ...] \fI\,PATTERNS\/\fR [\fI\,FILE\/\fR ...]
.br
.B rclgrep
[\fI\,OPTION\/\fR ...]
.B \-e
.I PATTERNS
\&.\|.\|.\&
[\fI\,FILE\/\fR ...]
.br
.B rclgrep
[\fI\,OPTION\/\fR ...]
.B \-f
.I PATTERNS_FILE
\&.\|.\|.\&
[\fI\,FILE\/\fR ...]
.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rclgrep
mimicks the interface and output of the
.B grep(1)
command while using the
.B recoll
data extraction subsystem, which enables it to look for matches not only in text files, but in
mostly any type of document, including nested ones (email attachments, archives, etc.).
.PP
The program is mostly an experiment in checking how an index-less pattern search program could be
useful. In practise it is slow, and maybe not quite finished.
.PP
Some of the options which are shared with 
.B grep(1)
will not be documented here.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\^\-help
Print usage string.
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\^\-regexp= PATTERNS
Patterns to search for. Can be given multiple times.
if \-e is used, all non-option arguments will be used as paths (no [pattern] argument).
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\^\-file= FILE
Get patterns from the file argument, one per line.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\^\-recurse
Operate recursively on directories. This is the default except if no paths
are given in which case rclgrep searches stdin. \-r is needed to cause recursing on the current
directory in the absence of a file argument.
.TP
.BR \-\^\-include= FN
File name pattern for files to be searched. Can be given multiple times.
.TP
.BR \-\^\-exclude= FN
File name pattern for files not to be searched. Can be given multiple times.
.TP
.BR \-\^\-exclude-from= FN
Take file name exclusion patterns from FILE.
.TP
.BR \-\^\-config= CONFIGDIR
Specify configuration directory (default ~/.config/rclgrep). This allows getting data extraction
options from an existing
.B recoll
configuration directory or from the dedicated
.B rclgrep
one. 
.TP
.B \-v,\-w,\-x,\-c,\-L,\-l,\-H,\-n,\-A,\-B,\-C,\-q,\-s,\-R
See grep manual.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR grep (1),
.BR recollindex (1),
